# LoRa-Hybrid-Network
Modern Internet of Things (IoT) solutions need to transmit many different data at great distances using wireless communications. There are many different wireless protocols to transmit these data such as Bluetooth, ZigBee, Wi-Fi, cellular 3G/4G or LPWANs. There has also been a recent interest in the deployment of Low Power Wide Area Networks (LPWANs), such as LoRaWAN, to support Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Even though the main advantage of these LPWANs are the long-range communication, the challenge of providing seamless and shadow area coverage still remains. In this project, we propose a hybrid LoRa network to cope with this challenge. For this project, we plan on creating a hybrid network of LoRa nodes that are connected to a channel gateway that acts as a coordinator and is also connected to the LoRa module. The advantage of using a hybrid topology instead of using Tree or star topology is the improvement of the communication coverage in shadow areas where a regular LoRa node cannot be reachable in cases of obstacles or topography. The development of the LoRa hybrid network, as well as the routing mechanism, are presented and verified with experimental results.  Goals: The goal of this project is to implement a hybrid network for industrial use using LoRa. We could break down the goals as follows: 1. To implement a combination of star and tree topology for an IoT node that is out of range of the gateway by connecting to LoRa through other nodes that are within the range. This will help in avoiding the use of additional gateways while improving the coverage range of the existing gateway. 2. To validate the deployment and operation of the network with experimentals tests. To demonstrate a successful packet transfer from an out of range node to the gateway.
